CJ Express, a Thai convenience store with income exceeding ten billion - MarketThink
A major convenience store chain in our country. Most of them are brands that come from overseas.
where a Thai company asked to buy franchise rights to open or buy shares one more time later
But in this convenience store battleground There is one player. Worth watching
which is a brand that started from in Thailand and has a Thai owner
That is “CJ Express”
CJ Express was founded in 2005 by Mr. Wit Sasalaksananon.
Under P.S.D. Rak Thai Company Limited.
which opened the first branch in Ratchaburi Province In the form of a wholesale shop with 2 booths.
before changing to Convenience stores and supermarkets that focuses on selling consumer products at an economical price
with a price strategy which tries to make the products in the store Sold at a cheaper price than general convenience stores.
Plus there are often promotions and discounts.
Including inside the store There are also small brand products for sale, which are products that cannot be bought at other convenience stores.
As a result, CJ Express's business has received good feedback. from people in the area
along with expanding branches to various areas continuously
After operating the business for 8 years or in the year 2013
CJ Express has arrived at a big turning point..
When Mr. Sathien Setthasit, who is the co-founder, chairman of the board and one of the major shareholders of Carabao Group Owner of the beverage brand "Carabao Dang"
along with partners Has come to buy the majority of shares, more than 80%, of P.S.D. Rak Thai Company Limited.
and changed the company name to C.J. Express Group Company Limited.
At that time, there were approximately 200 CJ ​​Express branches.
In other words, CJ Express has changed hands from the original owner. to the people who own Carabao Group
However, despite having the same owner, these two companies operate. separated
After Mr. Sathian came to manage CJ Express
He knows that in the convenience store business There is quite high competition.
If you want to survive in this business and must compete with giant brands from abroad which is the market leader
Business must have a distinctive feature. or differences arise
In addition to the strength in price, CJ Express already has an advantage.
CJ Express has also introduced a model for creating sub-stores within the store. come in and apply
That is to say, within the CJ Express store, there will be several service zones, such as a zone selling consumer products, a NINE Beauty zone selling beauty products, and a Bao Café zone that is a coffee shop.
To increase the variety of products and services to customers who come into the store
As for branch expansion
CJ Express will use the city-surrounding strategy, which is to focus on expanding branches to provincial areas, outside of Bangkok. and the surrounding area first which most locations Will focus on secondary locations or secondary roads.
To avoid competition from major competitors
Then, when the brand is well known and popular in the market. Including the business having a strong foundation. The outer area has been captured.
Will gradually expand more branches into the city or city center. to increase market share
New branches of CJ Express are often called "CJ Supermarket".
reputed to be Major convenience store chain True Thai nationality
And this business How much income can be generated?
C.J. Express Group Company Limited
In 2018, revenue was 11,582 million baht, profit 262 million baht.
In 2019, revenue was 13,797 million baht, profit 358 million baht.
And Khun Sathian said that in the past year 2020
The company has revenues of approximately 17,000 million baht and profits of approximately 1,000 million baht.
Compared to the number of branches of famous convenience stores in Thailand
7-Eleven has 12,432 branches.
FamilyMart has 901 branches.
LAWSON 108 has 142 branches.
As for CJ Express and CJ Supermarket, there are 600 branches covering as many as 29 provinces.
Including Bangkok, Nonthaburi, Nakhon Pathom, Pathum Thani, Samut Prakan, Samut Sakhon, Kanchanaburi, Chachoengsao, Chonburi, Chumphon, Chainat, Rayong, Saraburi, Singburi, Nakhon Ratchasima, etc.
However, Mr. Sathian sees that the real competitors of CJ Express and CJ Supermarket are
It's not 7-Eleven because the number of branches is too different.
and 7-Eleven has the majority of its income mainly from food products.
While CJ Express and CJ Supermarket focus on selling consumer products. Mainly at an economical price Just like a hypermarket
Therefore, regarding market position Direct competitors are probably Mini Big C and Lotus's go fresh (rebranded from Tesco Lotus Express).
Currently, Mini Big C has more than 1,100 branches.
As for Lotus's go fresh, there are more than 1,600 branches.
It can be seen that if we measure the number of branches, CJ Express and CJ Supermarket will have significantly fewer branches.
But looking at it from another angle, it shows that the business still has space and opportunities. To expand the branch quite a bit..
Another interesting story is at the end of 2020.
The company has launched “CJ MORE”
Flagship Store, a new format, on an area of ​​over 1,200 square meters in the heart of Silom area.
To want to create a shop that is different from other competitors Use it as a model for branch expansion in the future.
By adhering to the concept Being more than just a normal retail business
which will be the place that brings together various types of store brands of the company in one place
and divided into zones To fully meet the needs of customers, such as
- CJ Supermarket, the company's original retail brand Focus on consumer products
- NINE Beauty, a multi-brand cosmetics retailer
Targeting customers who value taking care of themselves
- Bao Café, a cafe that meets the needs of modern working-age young people.
- UNO, the chic lifestyle product zone both stationery electronic equipment and fashion products
To please both teenagers and working age customers.
- A-Home includes home decoration products for home lovers, including accessories